attendance 
seneca
tristan
elizabeth
benjamin easton
antonio
andrew clubine
jason small
alexander eyre
nickta 
rebecca geort
stephanie ye mowe
lauren pazzano

absent
antonio clarke*
cameron mills
tomson tran*
jill knight*
brian schwan*
abigail simpson
kanishka Goomer
hagop terzian
wendy xu
harsh mistry
andrew mohan

called to order at 12:39PM

approval of agenda
Nickta, Benjamin easton

carries unanimously

approval of minutes
seneca, tristan

no objections

carries

presidents report

mental health
student liason, student experience pannel
survey going out this week
working group to talk to students from various parts of the student bodyd
quantitative and qualitative data
progress report on october 24th during the panel symposium. sort of a mid-term report
later half of the progress report / symposium will be livestreamed
QA panel right after the FEdds GM

will be some hastags on twitter that will be asked to the panel, including the
campus director of mental health and the associate provost of students will
moderate, antonio and feridun will have opening remarks
campus wellness wall where students can add things

october general meeting, members submitted proposals, board approved the 
agenda, agenda was distributed in an email to all students.

federal advocacy week is coming up soon, antonio and andrew will be in ottawa
advocating on national issues that effect students at waterloo including
stduent loans, indigenous students, international students, and ????. 

policy and procedures committee, worked with councillor eyre to refine the
freedom of expression policy that's on the agenda today
working on an equity policy, communicating with the campus director of equity
to ensure all teh bases are covered, also emalgamating some other policies
into this one
working long term to change the policy development process to facilitate 
creating and using them

updates on university policy will come in the future.  

vpof 

not present

vpi

not present

vpe

student advisory panel on the coop fee review. a few more students can sit on 
the panel, so if councillors or councillor contacts are interested than they
can contact andrew to get a seat

director of coop is retiring, she's been great for campus in getting the
fee review and other coop initiatives. There will be a transition as she leaves,
and they are aiming for it to be non-disruptive

ousa committee was andrew antonio and elizebeth. Delegates were found. 

indegenous policy - see later agenda

4th developemnt in waterloo was not ready for student move-ins. trying to get
some municipal and provincial laws that will prevent housing companies from
leasing to students prior to the development being approved. government 
sponsored document that will be mandated for landlords to present to tennants,
so that tennants know when their rights are being abused. will likely include
language such that if a development isn't ready a tennant isn't bound to 
stay

fall break, talking with societies and engsoc. see email update from andrew
working on a proposal to have a week break, the idea is that this should not
infringe any further into orientation. 

a councillor asked why the template existed if laws still took precedence.  
how does the contract solve move-in issues. outlines scope of the terms
that are allowed to be in a lease agreement to avoid illegal terms. pre-tenancy 
rights are maybe not going to be included in the template, but the hope is that
if there are exact date terms in an agreement there will be wording around
what is allowed. Mainly trying to put it on the governments radar. 

a councillor asked if there was a system to prevent landlords from rejecting 
tennants fi they asked for the government lease. likely bylaw fines if 
landlords were not providing the government lease. 

a councillor asked how students will know about this, given they don't 
know about current laws. Thsi will be largely on students. onus shifts to the
landlords to educate tennants as to why their leases are legal. 

discussing about whether they want to email all first years about hosuing
rghts, and what role feds to educate about housing as opposed to uwaterloo
housing and residence. 

also prodding the region to get more general student education to all student
in the city. 

seneca gave a report

ran a couple of surveys. 

environmental sustainability, water bottle,

some numbers nad stuff, get from seneca

freedom of expression

some more numbers, get from seneca

Brian asked about online reimbursement last week

64% wanted online reimbursement, more numbers from seneca

online voting

jason gave a brief update, will nto be pursuing removing water at the council
level, but instead is working with brian. bottled water is being removed and
boxed water is being sold instead, in a non-prominent location. 

general orders

Education Advisory Committee and Government Affairs Advisory Committee
andrew, jason

be it resolved that council approves 
they were the same committee, and then split to have more specific discussions,
unfortunately this ended up creating an environment where members were 
expected to have large amounts of context on policy issues, and it made
councillors ineffective on these committees which then became update
committees. 

senneca, jason (friendly) move to amend the motion to allow PPC to clena
up the policy with grammar and structure changes. 

Freedom of speech and expression on campus
- Be it resolved that Council adopt the policy on Freedom of Speech and
  Expression on Campus as presented, and
- Be it further resolved that Council task the President to work with the
  University to ensure the University endorses the Chicago Principles by the
  end of April 2018; and
- Be it further resolved that Council task the Executive to work with the
  University to ensure the University does not obligate clubs to hire security
  for their events; and
- Be it further resolved that that Council tasks the Internal Administration
  Committee to amend Club Procedure to ensure that clubs themselves are not
  liable for costs of event security until such time as the University drafts
  policy on this matter.
Alexander, seneca

the policy has been refined wiht the help of PPC, and this version is much
clearer and in line wiht other feds policy. Alexander ran through the terms
of the policy.  

A councillor asked about the equity policy that was mentioned, antonio updated

jason proposed to split the clauses into seperate motions. 
seconded by andrew. 

jason is concerned with the last item, and he thinks that clubs should have
to pay security if there is a cost associated with it. 

The main intent with the grouping is to avoid coupoling policy with current
campus lobbying. 

andrew, jason motioned to group the first three, adn the last item seperate. 

carries unanimously.

Motion now reads
- Be it resolved that Council adopt the policy on Freedom of Speech and
  Expression on Campus as presented, and
- Be it further resolved that Council task the President to work with the
  University to ensure the University endorses the Chicago Principles by the
  end of April 2018; and
- Be it further resolved that Council task the Executive to work with the
  University to ensure the University does not obligate clubs to hire security
  for their events; and

carries unanimously.

The next motion is:
- Be it further resolved that that Council tasks the Internal Administration
  Committee to amend Club Procedure to ensure that clubs themselves are not
  liable for costs of event security until such time as the University drafts
  policy on this matter.
Alexander, seneca

There was some comments that clubs and feds are the same pool of money, so 
either way feds is paying. IAC is empowered to allow clubs to spend money in 
whatever way they want. 

a councillor brought up that it is pretty vague as worded, and that refering
it to a committee is a good way for it to never be seen again.

Andrew moves to postpone the motion till the next meeting
Andrew, Alexander 

carries unanimously. seneca abstained. 

Indigenous Engagement and Inclusivity

for comments

waterloo is about as good as anyone on this issue. waterloo has started to
address indegenous issues, and feds has put together a report to help
inform that discussion. 

a councillor agreed with most of the principles of the policy, but had 
reservationswith the clause at the top of the second page:

BIFRT the Federation of Students shall advocate for the hiring of tenure-track
Indigenous faculty members and professional and administrative staff across
various disciplines;

Was concerned that this made it seem like feds was promoting hiring people
for their ethnicity as opposed to their qualifications. 

The vpe inquired about what specifically was the issue, as teh purpose was
to mainly address parts ot the university community where having someone
with knowledge of indigenous communities.

the president suggested "removing barries" as opposed to advocating for hiring.

a few councillors expressed support for the original wording.

a councillor inquired about operational concerns, and wanted more consultation
with non-indeginious students. 

a councillor re-iterated their support for re-wording the clause on hiring. 

a straw poll was held to inform how the vpe further develops this clause.  

a councillor expressed great support for the major and minor, and provided an
anecdote about the wait list for mohawk language courses.

Fall reading break proposal

Be it resolved that Council delegate the resolution and all relevant
information regarding the Fall Reading Break proposal to the portfolio of the
Vice President, Education, in consultation with the Policy and Procedures
Committee.
Be it further resolved that Council empowers any Councillors who
have opinions or feedback on the proposal to share these views directly with
the Vice President, Education.

seneca, andrewc

andrew noted that orientation was not being targeted, and reiterated that this
people should talk to the vped

andrew emphasized that this would be coming to EAC for discussion

carries unanimously

new business

ratification of ousa delegates

BIRT that Council ratify the Fall 2017 OUSA General Assembly following
delegates recommended by the selection committee (VP Education, President and
Speaker): Antonio Brieva, Andrew Clubine, Steven Jia, Alexander Wray, Hannah
Beckett, Matthew Gerrits, Connor Plante, Daihane Zhu, Marcus Abramovitch, and
two others to be appointed by the selection committee.
andrew, benjamin

andrew gave a spiel on what ousa is to the counicllors. 

andrew also encouraged students to email him ifi they want to be a delegate, or
if they just want to stop by. Teh GA will be at laurier, next weekend

caries unanimously

commitee membership

be it resolved that the members of the previous EAC and GAAC committees become
members of the new EAC. 
jason, andrewc

carries unanimously. 1 abstention

councillor stephane (env) would like to express dissapointment with the
confusion that is being created with teh new watcard/bus pass. there is a lot
of telephone talk as people try to figure out what is going on. 

the vped responded that the upass is split between vpe and vpof. GRT hasn't 
decided exactly how the process is going to move ahead. it's confusing for
feds because data is shared between teh university (watcard office) and GRT, 
whereas the agreement is between GRT and Feds. Students will have an interim
period where the card will be excepted without tap, and students will still
have the leeway term (pay for two terms, the card works in teh third if you
are off-campus).

The councillor re-iterated that there should be mroe comunication and that
while recognizing ti isn't in feds control, the vpe should push GRT to be
more transparent.

communication with students saying that that they need to replace their 
watcard, email blast went out. 

it was made clear that students will always have access to paying teh upass 
fee as opposed to teh GRT standard fare.

Andrew will go to negotiations with teh feedback and will try to get more info 
up on watcard site and feds, and will email councillors with more information

motion to adjourn
nickta, benjamin

carries unanimously
